HAS BEEN THE TARGET OF
PROTESTERS, SINCE THE
NOMINATION WAS ANNOUNCED.
APART FROM HER, THE ONLY OTHER
SENATOR WHO HAS NOT INDICATED
WHICH WAY HE WILL VOTE IS
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR JOE MANCHIN,
THEY VOTED YES FOR CLOTURE, IT
PASSED 51-49, ALONG PARTY
LINES, THE ONLY ONE TO GO
AGAINST HIS CONFIRMATION WAS
LISA MURKOWSKI.
A CBSN POLITICAL CONTRIBUTOR
AND A CAPITOL HILL  REPORTER
FOR THE HILL, MOLLY, THANK YOU
FOR JOINING US, I WANT TO START
WITH MURKOWSKI, I KNOW SHE
VOTED NO TO MOVE IT FORWARD, I
KNOW PEOPLE USUALLY SAY THAT'S
AN INDICATION OF WHERE SHE WILL
VOTE, DOES IT MEAN, AND HAVE WE
HEARD ANYTHING FURTHER, THAT
HER ACTUAL VOTE WILL BE NO?
>> IT IS UNCLEAR AT THIS POINT,
BUT GOING INTO THE CHAMBER, SHE
TOLD REPORTERS THAT ESSENTIALLY
BRETT KAVANAUGH IS A GOOD MAN,
BUT HE'S NOT THE RIGHT MAN FOR
THE COURT AT THIS TIME, AND
EARLIER THURSDAY, THE DAYS SEEM
TO BE RUNNING TOGETHER, SHE MET
WITH SEXUAL SURVIVORS FROM
ALASKA IN HER OFFICE, THAT
MIGHT HAVE BEEN AN IMPACT ON
WHETHER OR NOT SHE WANTED TO
MOVE THE NOMINATION FORWARDOR
NOT, KEEP IN MIND, IF THE SENATE
DECIDED TO MOVE FORWARD, AND IN
THIS WAY, THE SENATE WILL MAKE
THE POST AND THE DECISION ON
WHETHER TO CONFIRM OR NOT, ON
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, AS LATE AS
5:30 PM SATURDAY, AND AGAIN, A
LOT CAN HAPPEN BETWEEN NOW AND
THEN, TALKING TO SEVERAL
SENATORS AFTER THIS MORNING'S
VOTE, I ASKED, ARE YOU TALKING
TO SENATOR MURKOWSKI, COLLINS,
AND FOR THE MOST PART, I'VE
HEARD IT SAYING THAT WE ARE
TRYING TO LET THEM KEEP IT TO
THEIR OWN COUNSEL, NOT TRYING TO
PUSH THEM EITHER WAY, A NUMBER
PROTESTERS, BUT THEY WERE SOON
CLEARED OUT, IT'S A LOT MORE
QUITE UP HERE THAN IT HAS BEEN
FOR THE PAST TWO WEEKS.>> I WAS
STRUCK BY SENATOR FLAKE, HE
WOULD VOTE YES, SOMETHING BIG
HAPPENS, IS HE HUDDLING WITH
OTHER SENATORS, WHO HAS HE BEEN
TALKING TO RECENTLY?>> IN THIS
PROCESS, EACH DAY SEEMS LIKE A
LIFETIME, AND YOU NEVER KNOW
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN OR
UNFOLD, AFTER ESSENTIALLY TWO
WEEKS AGO, OR THREE WEEKS,
SEPTEMBER 14, WHEN THE
REVELATION, THE ALLEGATION THAT
HE HAD COMMITTED SEXUAL ASSAULT
WHEN HE WAS IN HIGH SCHOOL,
MOST SENATORS HAVE A COVENANT
WITH THEIR ANSWERS, BARRING
ANYTHING UNFORESEEN.
BECAUSE THEY DID NOT, MANY OF
THEM, REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS,
DID NOT SEE THAT LETTER COMING
OUT, OR THE ALLEGATIONS COMING
OUT, UNTIL THE 11th HOUR, THAT
IS SOMETHING, A REAR END
APPEAR, UNTIL THE FINAL VOTE
HAPPENS.
>> WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT COLLINS
HERE, WHICH IS THE VOTE WE ARE
WATCHING, EAGER TO HEAR WHAT
SHE HAS TO SAY, WHAT IS SHE
FACING WHEN IT COMES TO LOCAL
POLITICS BACK HOME?>> SHE
DOESN'T HAVE REELECTION UNTIL
20-22 -- 2022, ALREADY ONE OF
THE HOUSE MEMBERS WHO COULD BE
THERE, SUSAN COLLINS, FOR
KAVANAUGH, SHE WOULD GET INTO
THE RACE, FACING A LOT OF
PRESSURE FROM THE FOLKS WHO ARE
AGAINST KAVANAUGH, THEY'VE BEEN
SENDING WIRE COAT HANGERS, TO
HER OFFICE, THREATENING MEMBERS,
OF HER FEMALE STAFFERS, REPORTS
THAT ONE FEMALE STAFFER, ONE
ANTI-KAVANAUGH PROTESTER
THREATENED TO RAPE ONE OF
COLLINS FEMALE STAFFERS, AND
REALLY, I THINK WHEN IT COMES
TO COLLINS, THERE HAVE BEEN VERY
AGGRESSIVE TACTICS, TO FORCE
COLLINS TO VOTE AGAINST
KAVANAUGH, AND SHE IS ONE OF
THOSE PEOPLE, NOT BOWING TO
EITHER SIDE, IF YOU LOOK AT HER
RECORD, SHE HAS ALWAYS BEEN IN
ONE OF THE QUOTE UNQUOTE GANGS
ON CAPITOL HILL, WHEN THERE IS
A DIVISIVE ISSUE, AND YOU NEED
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS,
SHE'S ALWAYS BEEN ONE OF THOSE
BROKERS, SHE IS NOT SWAYED
NECESSARILY BY THIS.
>>> I APOLOGIZE, WE HAVE SUSAN
COLLINS RIGHT NOW, WE ARE GOING
TO ALLOW HER TO SPEAK AND HEAR
WHAT SHE HAS TO SAY ON THIS
VOTE ON KAVANAUGH.
>>> SERGEANT!
VOTE NO STAND UP FOR RAPED
WOMEN!
>> AS A REMINDER TO OUR GUESTS
IN THE GALLERIES, EXPRESSIONS
OF APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL ARE
NOT PERMITTED IN THE SENATE
GALLERIES, THE SENATOR FOR
MAINE.
>> MR. PRESIDENT, THE FIVE
PREVIOUS TIMES THAT I HAVE COME
TO THE FLOOR TO EXPLAIN MY VOTE
ON THE NOMINATION OF A JUSTICE
TO THE UNITED STATES SUPREME
COURT, I HAVE BEGUN MY FLOOR
REMARKS EXPLAINING MY DECISION
WITH A RECOGNITION OF THE
SOLEMN NATURE AND THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE OCCASION.
BUT TODAY, WE HAVE COME TO THE
CONCLUSION, OF A CONFIRMATION
PROCESS THAT HAS BECOME SO
DYSFUNCTIONAL IT LOOKS MORE LIKE
A CARICATURE OF A GUTTER LEVEL
POLITICAL CAMPAIGN.
THEN A SOLEMN OCCASION.
-- THAN A SOLEMN OCCASION.
THE PRESIDENT NOMINATED BRETT
KAVANAUGH WITHIN -- ON JULY 9,
WITHIN MOMENTS, SPECIAL
INTEREST GROUPS RAISED TO BE
THE FIRST TO OPPOSE THEM,
INCLUDING ONE ORGANIZATION THAT
DIDN'T EVEN BOTHER TO FILL IN
THE JUDGE'S NAME ON ITS
PREWRITTEN PRESS RELEASE.
THEY SIMPLY WROTE THAT THEY
OPPOSED DONALD TRUMP'S
NOMINATION OF X TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
A NUMBER OF SENATORS JOINED THE
RACE TO ANNOUNCE THEIR
OPPOSITION, BUT THEY WERE
BEATEN TO THE PUNCH BY ONE OF
OUR COLLEAGUES, WHO ACTUALLY
ANNOUNCED OPPOSITION BEFORE THE
NOMINEES -- NOMINEE'S IDENTITY
WAS EVEN KNOWN.
SINCE THAT TIME, WE HAVE SEEN
SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS WITH
THEIR FOLLOWERS -- WHIP THEIR
FOLLOWERS INTO A FRENZY, BY
SPREADING MISREPRESENTATIONS
AND OUTRIGHT FALSEHOODS ABOUT
JUDGE KAVANAUGH'S JUDICIAL
RECORD.
OVER-THE-TOP RHETORIC, AND
DISTORTIONS OF HIS RECORD AND
TESTIMONY AT HIS FIRST HEARING,
PRODUCED SHORT-LIVED HEADLINES,
WHICH ALTHOUGH DEBUNKED HOURS
LATER, CONTINUED TO LIVE ON AND
BE SPREAD THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA.
INTEREST GROUPS HAVE ALSO SPENT
AN UNPRECEDENTED AMOUNT OF DARK
MONEY OPPOSING THIS NOMINATION.
OUR SUPREME COURT CONFIRMATION
PROCESS HAS BEEN IN STEADY
DECLINE FOR MORE THAN 30 YEARS.
ONE CAN ONLY HOPE THAT THE
KAVANAUGH NOMINATION IS WHERE
THE PROCESS HAS FINALLY HIT
ROCK BOTTOM.
AGAINST THIS BACKDROP, IT IS UP
TO EACH INDIVIDUAL SENATOR TO
DECIDE WHAT THE CONSTITUTION'S
ADVICE AND CONSENT DUTY MEANS.
INFORMED BY ALEXANDER HAMILTON
THIS -- HAMILTON'S, IN 1776, I
HAVE INTERPRETED THIS TO MEAN
THAT THE PRESIDENT HAS BROAD
DISCRETION TO CONSIDER A
NOMINEES PHILOSOPHY, WHEREAS MY
DUTY AS A SENATOR IS TO FOCUS
ON THE NOMINEES QUALIFICATIONS,
AS LONG AS THAT NOMINEES
PHILOSOPHY IS WITHIN THE
MAINSTREAM OF JUDICIAL THOUGHT.
I HAVE ALWAYS OPPOSED LITMUS
TESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOMINEES
WITH RESPECT TO THEIR PERSONAL
VIEWS OR POLITICS.
BUT I FULLY EXPECT THEM TO BE
ABLE TO PUT ASIDE ANY AND ALL
PERSONAL PREFERENCES IN
DECIDING THE CASES THAT COME
BEFORE THEM.
I HAVE NEVER CONSIDERED THE
PRESIDENT'S IDENTITY OR PARTY
WHEN EVALUATING SUPREME COURT
NOMINATIONS.
AS A RESULT, I VOTED IN FAVOR
OF JUSTICES ROBERTS AND ALITO,
WHO WERE NOMINATED BY PRESIDENT
BUSH, JUSTICES SOTOMAYOR AND
KAGAN, WHO WERE NOMINATED BY
PRESIDENT OBAMA, AND JUSTICE
NEIL GORSUCH, WHO WAS NOMINATED
BY PRESIDENT TRUMP.
>>> SO I BEGAN MY EVALUATION OF
HIS NOMINATION BY REVIEWING HIS
12 YEAR RECORD ON THE DC
CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS.
INCLUDING HIS MORE THAN 300
OPINIONS AND HIS MANY SPEECHES
AND LOG REVIEW ARTICLES.
19 ATTORNEYS, INCLUDING LAWYERS
FROM THE NONPARTISAN
CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE,
BRIEFED ME MANY TIMES EACH WEEK,
AND ASSISTED ME IN EVALUATING
THE JUDGES EXTENSIVE RECORD.
I MET WITH JUDGE KAVANAUGH FOR
MORE THAN TWO HOURS, AND MY
OFFICE.
I LISTENED CAREFULLY TO THE
TESTIMONY AT THE COMMITTEE
HEARINGS, I SPOKE WITH PEOPLE
WHO KNEW HIM PERSONALLY, SUCH
AS CONDOLEEZZA RICE, AND MANY
OTHERS.
AND I TALKED WITH JUDGE
KAVANAUGH A SECOND TIME BY PHONE
FOR ANOTHER HOUR, TO ASK HIM A
VERY SPECIFIC ADDITIONAL
QUESTIONS.
I ALSO HAVE MET WITH THOUSANDS
OF MY CONSTITUENTS, BOTH
ADVOCATES AND MANY OPPONENTS,
REGARDING JUDGE KAVANAUGH.
ONE CONCERN THAT I FREQUENTLY
HEARD WAS THAT THE JUDGE WOULD
BE LIKELY TO ELIMINATE THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT'S VITAL
PROTECTIONS FOR PEOPLE WITH PRE-
EXISTIN CONDITIONS.
I DISAGREE WITH THIS CONTENTION.
AND A DISSENT IN 7 SKY VS HOLDER
, JUDGE KAVANAUGH REJECTED A
CHALLENGE ON NARROW PROCEDURAL
GROUNDS, PRESERVING THE LAW IN
FULL.
MANY EXPERTS HAVE SAID THAT HIS
DISSENT INFORMED JUSTICE
ROBERTS OPINION UPHOLDING THE
ACA AT THE SUPREME COURT.
FURTHERMORE, JUDGE KAVANAUGH'S
APPROACH TOWARD THE DOCTRINE OF
SEVERABILITY IS NARROW, WHEN A
PART OF A STATUTE IS CHALLENGED
ON CONSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS, HE
HAS ARGUED FOR SEVERING THE
INVALID CLAUSE, AS SURGICALLY
AS POSSIBLE.
WHILE ALLOWING THE OVERALL LAW
TO REMAIN INTACT.
THIS WAS HIS APPROACH AND HIS
DISSENT IN THE CASE INVOLVED A
CHALLENGE TO THE STRUCTURE OF
THE CONSUMER FINANCIAL
PROTECTION BUREAU.
IN HIS DISSENT, JUDGE KAVANAUGH
ARGUED FOR QUOTE, SEVERING ANY
PROBLEMATIC PORTIONS WHILE
LEAVING THE REMAINDER INTACT.
". GIVEN THE CURRENT CHALLENGES
TO THE ACA, PROPONENTS,
INCLUDING MYSELF, OF
PROTECTIONS FOR PEOPLE WITH
EXISTING CONDITIONS, SHOULD
WANTED JUSTICE WHO WOULD TAKE
JUST THIS KIND OF APPROACH.
>>> ANOTHER ASSERTION THAT I
HAVE HEARD OFTEN IS THAT JUDGE
KAVANAUGH CANNOT BE TRUSTED IF
A CASE INVOLVING ALLEGED
WRONGDOING BY THE PRESIDENT
WERE TO COME BEFORE THE COURT.
THE BASIS FOR THIS ARGUMENT
SEEMS TO BE TWOFOLD, FIRST,
JUDGE KAVANAUGH HAS WRITTEN
THAT HE BELIEVES THAT CONGRESS
SHOULD ENACT LEGISLATION TO
PROTECT PRESIDENTS FROM
CRIMINAL PROSECUTION, OR CIVIL
LIABILITY WHILE IN OFFICE.
MR. PRESIDENT, I BELIEVE
OPPONENTS MISS THE MARK ON THIS
ISSUE.
THE FACT THAT JUDGE KAVANAUGH
OFFERED THIS LEGISLATIVE
PROPOSAL SUGGESTS THAT HE
BELIEVES THAT THE PRESIDENT
DOES NOT HAVE SUCH PROTECTION
CURRENTLY.
>>> SECOND, THERE ARE SOME WHO
ARGUE THAT GIVEN THE CURRENT
SPECIAL COUNSEL INVESTIGATION,
PRESIDENT TRUMP SHOULD NOT EVEN
BE ALLOWED TO NOMINATE A
JUSTICE.
THAT ARGUMENT IGNORES OUR
RECENT HISTORY.
PRESIDENT CLINTON IN 1993
NOMINATED JUSTICE GINSBURG
AFTER THE WHITEWATER
INVESTIGATION WAS ALREADY
UNDERWAY.
AND SHE WAS CONFIRMED 96-3. THE
NEXT YEAR, JUST THREE MONTHS
AFTER AN INDEPENDENT COUNSEL,
ROBERT FISK, WAS NAMED TO LEAD
THE WHITEWATER INVESTIGATION,
PRESIDENT CLINTON NOMINATED
JUSTICE BREYER, HE WAS
CONFIRMED 87-9.
>>> SUPREME COURT JUSTICES HAVE
NOT HESITATED TO RULE AGAINST
THE PRESIDENTS WHO HAVE
NOMINATED THEM.
PERHAPS MOST NOTABLY, IN THE
UNITED STATES VERSUS NIXON, 3
NIXON APPOINTEES WHO HEARD THE
CASE JOINED THE UNANIMOUS
OPINION AGAINST HIM.
JUDGE KAVANAUGH HAS BEEN
UNEQUIVOCAL IN HIS BELIEF THAT
NO PRESIDENT IS ABOVE THE LAW.
HE HAS STATED THAT MARYBURY VS
MADISON, YOUNGSTOWN STEELE
VERSUS SAWYER, AND THE UNITED
STATES VERSUS NIXON, R 3 OF THE
4 GREATEST SUPREME COURT CASES
IN HISTORY.
WHAT DO THEY HAVE IN COMMON?
EACH OF THEM IS A CASE WHERE
CONGRESS SERVED AS A CHECK ON
PRESIDENTIAL POWER.
AND I WOULD NOTE THAT THE
FOURTH CASE THAT JUDGE
KAVANAUGH HAS POINTED TO AS THE
GREATEST IN HISTORY WAS BROWN
VERSUS THE BOARD OF
EDUCATION.>>> ONE KAVANAUGH
DECISION ILLUSTRATES THE POINT
ABOUT THE CHECK ON PRESIDENTIAL
POWER DIRECTLY, HE WROTE THE
OPINION IN HAMDAN VS THE UNITED
STATES, A CASE THAT CHALLENGES
THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S
MILITARY PROSECUTION OF AN
ASSOCIATE OF OSAMA BIN LADEN,
THIS CONVICTION WAS VERY
IMPORTANT TO THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION, BUT JUDGE
KAVANAUGH, WHO HAD BEEN
APPOINTED TO THE DC CIRCUIT BY
PRESIDENT BUSH, AND HAD WORKED
IN PRESIDENT BUSH'S WHITE HOUSE,
RULED THAT THE CONVICTION WAS
UNLAWFUL.
AS HE EXPLAINED DURING THE
HEARING, QUOTE, WE DON'T MAKE
DECISIONS BASED ON WHO PEOPLE
ARE OR THEIR POLICY PREFERENCES,
OR THE MOMENT, WE BASE
DECISIONS ON THE LAW.
".>>> OTHERS I HAVE MET WITH
HAVE EXPRESSED CONCERNS THAT
JUSTICE KENNEDY'S RETIREMENT
THREATENS THE RIGHT OF SAME-SEX
COUPLES TO MARRY.
YET JUDGE KAVANAUGH DESCRIBE THE
DECISION, WHICH LEGALIZED SAME
GENDER MARRIAGES, AS AN
IMPORTANT LANDMARK PRECEDENT.
HE ALSO CITED JUSTICE KENNEDY'S
RECENT MASTERPIECE CAKE SHOP
OPINION FOR THE COURT'S
MAJORITY, STATING THAT, QUOTE,
-- "THE DAYS OF TREATING GAY
AMERICANS OR GAY LESBIAN
COUPLES AS SECOND-CLASS
CITIZENS WHO ARE INFERIOR IN
DIGNITY AND WORTH ARE OVER IN
THE SUPREME COURT."
OTHERS HAVE SUGGESTED THAT THE
JUDGE HOLDS EXTREME VIEWS ON
BIRTH CONTROL, IN ONE CASE,
JUDGE KAVANAUGH INCURRED THE
DISFAVOR OF BOTH SIDES OF THE
POLITICAL SPECTRUM FOR SEEKING
TO ENSURE THE AVAILABILITY OF
CONTRACEPTIVE SERVICES FOR
WOMEN, WHILE MINIMIZING THE
INVOLVEMENT OF EMPLOYERS WITH
RELIGIOUS OBJECTIONS.
ALTHOUGH HIS CRITICS FREQUENTLY
OVERLOOKED THIS POINT, JUDGE
KAVANAUGH'S DISSENT REJECTED
ARGUMENTS THAT THE GOVERNMENT
DID NOT HAVE A COMPELLING
INTEREST IN FACILITATING ACCESS
TO CONTRACEPTION.
IN FACT, HE WROTE THAT THE
SUPREME COURT PRECEDENT
STRONGLY SUGGESTED THAT THERE
WAS A COMPELLING INTEREST IN
FACILITATING ACCESS TO BIRTH
CONTROL.
>>> THERE HAS ALSO BEEN
CONSIDERABLE FOCUS ON THE
FUTURE OF ABORTION RIGHTS,
BASED ON THE CONCERN THAT JUDGE
KAVANAUGH WOULD SEEK TO OVERTURN
ROE VERSUS WADE, PROTECTING
THIS RIGHT IS IMPORTANT TO ME.
TO MY KNOWLEDGE, JUDGE KAVANAUGH
IS THE FIRST SUPREME COURT
NOMINEE TO EXPRESS THE VIEW THAT
PRECEDENT IS NOT MERELY A
PRACTICE AND TRADITION, BUT
ROOTED IN ARTICLE 3 OF OUR
CONSTITUTION ITSELF.
HE BELIEVES THAT PRECEDENT IS
NOT JUST A JUDICIAL POLICY, IT
IS CONSTITUTIONALLY DICTATED TO
PAY ATTENTION AND PAY HEED TO
RULES OF PRECEDENT.
IN OTHER WORDS, PRECEDENT IS
NOT A GOAL OR ASPIRATION, IT IS
A CONSTITUTIONAL TENANT -- 10
THAT -- TENET THAT HAS TO BE
FOLLOWED EXCEPT IN THE MOST
EXTREME CIRCUMSTANCES.
AND PRECEDENT SUPPLIES
PREDICTABILITY, RELIANCE AND
FAIRNESS.
THERE ARE OF COURSE RARE AND
EXTRAORDINARY TIMES WHERE THE
SUPREME COURT WOULD RIGHTLY
OVERTURN A PRECEDENT, THE MOST
FAMOUS EXAMPLE WAS WHEN THE
SUPREME COURT IN BROWN VERSUS
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OVERRULED
PLESSEY VS FERGUSON, CORRECTING
A GRIEVOUSLY WRONG DECISION, TO
USE THE JUDGE'S TERM, ALLOWING
RACIAL INEQUALITY.
>>> BUT SOMEONE WHO BELIEVES
THAT THE IMPORTANCE OF
PRECEDENT HAS BEEN ROOTED IN
THE CONSTITUTION WOULD FOLLOW
LONG-ESTABLISHED PRECEDENT,
EXCEPT IN THOSE RARE
CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE A DECISION
IS PREVIOUSLY WRONG OR DEEPLY
INCONSISTENT WITH THE LAW,
THOSE ARE JUDGE KAVANAUGH'S
PHRASES.
AS THE JUDGE ASSERTED TO ME, A
LONG-ESTABLISHED PRECEDENT IS
NOT SOMETHING TO BE TRIMMED,
NARROWED, DISCARDED, OR
OVERLOOKED.
ITS ROOTS IN THE CONSTITUTION
GIVE THE CONCEPT OF STARE
DECISIS, PRECLUDING ATTEMPTS TO
DO BY STEALTH THAT WHICH ONE
HAS COMMITTED NOT TO DO OVERLY.
-- OVERTLY.
NOTING THAT ROE VERSUS WADE WAS
DECIDED 45 YEARS AGO, AND
REAFFIRMED 19 YEARS LATER, IN
PLANNED PARENTHOOD VERSUS
CASEY, I ASKED JUDGE KAVANAUGH
WHETHER THE PASSAGE OF TIME IS
RELEVANT TO FOLLOWING PRECEDENT.
E SAID DECISIONS BECOME PART
OF OUR LEGAL FRAMEWORK WITH THE
PASSAGE OF TIME, AND THAT
HONORING PRECEDENT IS ESSENTIAL
TO MAINTAINING PUBLIC
CONFIDENCE.
OUR DISCUSSION THEN TURNED TO
THE RIGHT OF PRIVACY ON WHICH
THE SUPREME COURT RELIED IN
GRISWALD VS CONNECTICUT, A CASE
THAT STRUCK DOWN A LAW BANNING
THE USE OF CONTRACEPTION.
IT ESTABLISHED THE LEGAL
FOUNDATION THAT LED TO ROE
VERSUS WADE EIGHT YEARS LATER.
IN DESCRIBING GRISWOLD AS
SETTLED LAW, JUDGE KAVANAUGH
OBSERVED THAT IT WAS THE
CORRECT APPLICATION OF TWO
FAMOUS CASES FROM THE 1920S.
MEYER AND PIERCE, THAT ARE NOT
SERIOUSLY CHALLENGED BY ANYONE
TODAY.
>>> FINALLY, IN HIS TESTIMONY
HE NOTED REPEATEDLY THAT ROE
VERSUS WADE HAD BEEN UPHELD BY
PLANNED PARENTHOOD VERSUS
CASEY, DESCRIBING IT AS
PRECEDENT ON PRECEDENT.
WHEN I ASKED HIM, WOULD IT BE
SUFFICIENT TO OVERTURN A LONG-
ESTABLISHED PRECEDENT IF 5
CURRENT JUSTICES BELIEVED THAT
IT WAS WRONGLY DECIDED, HE
EMPHATICALLY SAID NO.
>>> OPPONENTS FREQUENTLY CITE
THEN CANDIDATE DONALD TRUMP'S
CAMPAIGN PLEDGE TO NOMINATE
ONLY JUDGES WHO WOULD OVERTURN
ROE VERSUS WADE.
THE REPUBLICAN PLATFORM FOR ALL
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGNS HAS
INCLUDED THIS PLEDGE SINCE AT
LEAST 1980.
DURING THIS TIME, PRESIDENTS,
REPUBLICAN, HAVE APPOINTED
JUSTICES O'CONNOR, SUTER AND
KENNEDY TO THE SUPREME COURT,
THESE ARE THE VERY THREE
JUSTICES, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENT
APPOINTED JUSTICES, WHO OFFERED
-- AUTHORED THE KC DECISION
WHICH REAFFIRMED ROE VERSUS
WADE.
AND THEY VIGOROUSLY OPPOSE THESE
NOMINATIONS, INCREDIBLY, THEY
EVEN CIRCULATED BUTTONS WITH
THE SLOGAN, STOP SUTER OR WOMEN
WILL DIE.
JUST TWO YEARS LATER, JUSTICE
SUTER CO-AUTHORED THE KC
DECISION REAFFIRMING A WOMAN'S
RIGHT TO CHOOSE, SUFFICE IT TO
SAY, PROMINENT ADVOCACY
ORGANIZATIONS HAVE BEEN WRONG.
>>> THE SAME INTEREST GROUPS
HAVE SPECULATED THAT JUDGE
KAVANAUGH WAS SELECTED TO DO
THE BIDDING OF CONSERVATIVE
IDEOLOGUES, DESPITE HIS RECORD
OF JUDICIAL INDEPENDENCE.
I ASKED THE JUDGE POINT BLANK,
WHETHER HE HAD MADE ANY
COMMITMENTS, OR PLEDGES, TO
ANYONE IN THE WHITE HOUSE, TO
THE FEDERALIST SOCIETY, TO ANY
OUTSIDE GROUP.
ON HOW HE WOULD DECIDE CASES.
HE UNEQUIVOCALLY ASSURED ME,
THAT HE HAD NOT.
JUDGE KAVANAUGH HAS RECEIVED
RAVE REVIEWS FOR HIS 12 YEAR
>>> RECORD AS A JUDGE, INCLUDING
FOR HIS JUDICIAL TEMPERAMENT.
THE AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION
GAVE HIM ITS HIGHEST POSSIBLE
RATING.
IT'S STANDING COMMITTEE ON THE
FEDERAL JUDICIARY CONDUCTED AN
EXTRAORDINARY THOROUGH
ASSESSMENT, SOLICITING INPUT
FROM ALMOST 500 PEOPLE,
INCLUDING HIS JUDICIAL
COLLEAGUES.
THE APA CONCLUDED THAT HIS
INTEGRITY, JUDICIAL TEMPERAMENT
AND PROFESSIONAL CONFIDENCE MET
THE HIGH STANDARDS.
LISA BLACK, WHO HAS ARGUED MORE
CASES BEFORE THE SUPREME COURT
THAN ANY OTHER WOMAN, IN
HISTORY, TESTIFIED QUOTE -- "BY
ANY EFFECTIVE MEASURE, JUDGE
KAVANAUGH IS CLEARLY QUALIFIED
TO SERVE ON THE SUPREME COURT.
HIS OPINIONS ARE INVARIABLY
THOUGHTFUL AND FAIR."
SHE CLERKED FOR HIM AS AN ARDENT
ADMIRER OF GINSBERG, IS
UNAPOLOGETICALLY A DEFENDER OF
A WOMAN'S RIGHT TO CHOOSE, SAYS
THAT JUDGE KAVANAUGH FITS
WITHIN THE MAINSTREAM OF LEGAL
THOUGHT.
SHE ALSO OBSERVED THAT JUDGE
KAVANAUGH IS REMARKABLY
COMMITTED TO PROMOTING WOMEN IN
THE LEGAL PROFESSION.
THAT JUDGE KAVANAUGH IS MORE OF
A CENTRIST THAN SOME OF HIS
CRITICS MAINTAIN IS REFLECTED
IN THE FACT THAT HE AND CHIEF
JUDGE MERRICK GARLAND VOTED THE
SAME WAY IN 93% OF THE CASES
THAT THEY HEARD TOGETHER.
INDEED, CHIEF JUDGE GARLAND
JOINED IN MORE THAN 96,
PRESENTING THE MAJORITY
OPINIONS PRESENTED BY JUDGE
KAVANAUGH, DISSENTING ONLY ONCE.
>>> DESPITE ALL THIS, AFTER
WEEKS OF REVIEWING JUDGE
KAVANAUGH'S RECORD AND
LISTENING TO 32 HOURS OF HIS
TESTIMONY, THE SENATE'S ADVICE
AND CONSENT ROLE WAS THROWN
INTO A TAILSPIN FOLLOWING THE
ALLEGATIONS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
BY PROFESSOR CHRISTINE BLASEY
FORD.
THE CONFIRMATION PROCESS NOW
INVOLVES EVALUATING WHETHER OR
NOT JUDGE KAVANAUGH COMMITTED
SEXUAL ASSAULT AND LIED ABOUT IT
TO THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.
SOME ARGUE THAT BECAUSE THIS IS
A LIFETIME APPOINTMENT, TO OUR
HIGHEST COURTS, THE REQUIREMENT
IS TO RESOLVE AGAINST THE
NOMINEE.
OTHERS SEE THE PUBLIC INTEREST
AS EMBODIED IN OUR LONG-
ESTABLISHED TRADITION OF
AFFORDING TO THOSE ACCUSED OF
MISCONDUCT A PRESUMPTION OF
INNOCENCE.
IN CASES IN WHICH THE FACTS ARE
UNCLEAR, THEY WOULD ARGUE THAT
THE QUESTIONS SHOULD BE
RESOLVED IN FAVOR OF THE
NOMINEE.
MR. PRESIDENT, I UNDERSTAND
BOTH VIEWPOINTS, THIS DEBATE IS
COMPLICATED FURTHER BY THE FACT
THAT THE SENATE CONFIRMATION
PROCESS IS NOT A TRIAL, BUT
CERTAIN FUNDAMENTAL LEGAL
PRINCIPLES ABOUT DUE PROCESS,
THE PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE,
AND FAIRNESS, DO BEAR ON MY
THINKING, AND I CANNOT ABANDON
THEM.
IN EVALUATING ANY GIVEN CLAIM
OF MISCONDUCT, WE WILL BE EEL
SERVED IN THE LONG RUN IF WE
ABANDON THE PRESUMPTION OF
INNOCENCE AND FAIRNESS,
TEMPTING THOUGH IT MAY BE.
WE MUST ALWAYS REMEMBER THAT IT
IS WHEN PASSIONS ARE MOST
INFLAMED, THAT FAIRNESS IS MOST
IN JEOPARDY.
>>> THE PRESUMPTION OF
INNOCENCE IS RELEVANT TO THE
ADVICE AND CONSENT FUNCTION
WHEN AN ACCUSATION DEPARTS FROM
A NOMINEES OTHERWISE EXEMPLARY
RECORD.
I WORRY THAT DEPARTING FROM
THIS PRESUMPTION COULD LEAD TO
A LACK OF PUBLIC FAITH IN THE
JUDICIARY, AND WOULD BE HUGELY
DAMAGING TO THE CONFIRMATION
PROCESS MOVING FORWARD.
SOME OF THE ALLEGATIONS LEVIED
AGAINST JUDGE KAVANAUGH
ILLUSTRATE WHY THE PRESUMPTION
OF INNOCENCE IS SO IMPORTANT.
I AM THINKING IN PARTICULAR NOT
AT THE ALLEGATIONS RAISED BY
PROFESSOR FORD, BUT OF THE
ALLEGATION THAT WHEN HE WAS A
TEENAGER, JUDGE KAVANAUGH
DRUGGED MULTIPLE GIRLS, AND
USED THEIR WEEKEND ESTATE TO
FACILITATE GANG RAPE.
-- WEAKENED STATE TO FACILITATE
GANG RAPE.
THIS OUTLANDISH ASSERTION CAME
WITHOUT EVIDENCE, AND SIMPLY
PARROTED PUBLIC STATEMENTS OF
OTHERS.
THAT SUCH AN ALLEGATION CAN
FIND ITS WAY INTO THE SUPREME
COURT CONFIRMATION PROCESS IS A
STARK REMINDER ABOUT WHY THE
PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE IS SO
INGRAINED IN OUR AMERICAN
CONSCIOUSNESS.
>>> ESTHER PRESIDENT, I
LISTENED CAREFULLY TO CHRISTINE
BLASEY FORD'S TESTIMONY BEFORE
THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.
I FOUND HER TESTIMONY TO BE
SINCERE, PAINFUL, AND
COMPELLING.
I BELIEVE THAT SHE IS A SURVIVOR
OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND THAT
THIS TRAUMA HAS UPENDED HER
LIFE.
NEVERTHELESS, THE FOUR
WITNESSES SHE NAMED COULD NOT
CORROBORATE ANY OF THE EVENTS
OF THAT EVENING GATHERING WHERE
SHE SAYS THE ASSAULT OCCURRED.
NONE OF THE INDIVIDUALS
PROFESSOR FORD SAYS WERE AT THE
PARTY HAS ANY RECOLLECTION AT
ALL OF THAT NIGHT.
JUDGE KAVANAUGH FORCEFULLY
DENIED THE ALLEGATIONS UNDER
PENALTY OF PERJURY.
MARK JUDGE DENIED UNDER PENALTY
OF FELONY THAT HE HAD WITNESSED
AN ASSAULT.
PJ SMITH, ANOTHER PERSON
ALLEGEDLY AT THE PARTY, DENIED
THAT HE WAS THERE.
UNDER PENALTY OF FELONY.
PROFESSOR FORD'S LIFELONG FRIEND
, LELAND KAISER, INDICATED THAT
UNDER PENALTY OF FELONY, SHE
DOES NOT REMEMBER THAT PARTY.
AND SHE WENT FURTHER, SHE
INDICATED THAT NOT ONLY DOES
SHE NOT REMEMBER A NIGHT LIKE
THAT, BUT ALSO THAT SHE DOES
NOT EVEN KNOW BRETT KAVANAUGH.
>>> IN ADDITION TO THE LACK OF
CORROBORATING EVIDENCE, WE ALSO
LEARNED SOME FACTS THAT RAISE
MORE QUESTIONS, FOR INSTANCE,
SINCE THESE ALLEGATIONS HAVE
BECOME PUBLIC, PROFESSOR FORD
TESTIFIED THAT NOT A SINGLE
PERSON HAS CONTACTED HER TO SAY
I WAS AT THE PARTY THAT NIGHT.
FURTHERMORE, THE PROFESSOR
TESTIFIED THAT ALTHOUGH SHE
DOES NOT REMEMBER HOW SHE GOT
HOME THAT EVENING, SHE KNEW THAT
BECAUSE OF THE DISTANCE, SHE
WOULD HAVE NEEDED A RIDE, YET
NOT A SINGLE PERSON HAS COME
FORWARD TO SAY THAT THEY WERE
THE ONE WHO DROVE HER HOME, OR
WERE IN THE CAR WITH HER THAT
NIGHT.
AND PROFESSOR FORD ALSO
INDICATED THAT EVEN THOUGH SHE
LEFT THAT SMALL GATHERING OF
SIX OR SO PEOPLE ABRUPTLY AND
WITHOUT SAYING GOODBYE, AND
DISTRAUGHT, NONE OF THEM CALLED
HER THE NEXT DAY, OR EVER, TO
ASK WHY SHE LEFT, IS SHE OKAY.
NOT EVEN HER CLOSEST FRIEND,
MS. KAISER.
>>> MR. PRESIDENT, THE
CONSTITUTION DOES NOT PROVIDE
GUIDANCE ON HOW WE ARE SUPPOSED
TO EVALUATE THESE COMPETING
CLAIMS, IT LEAVES THAT DECISION
UP TO EACH SENATOR. THIS IS NOT
A CRIMINAL TRIAL, AND I DO NOT
BELIEVE THAT THE CRIMINAL TRIAL
, AND I DON'T THINK THAT THE
CLAIMS NEED TO BE PROVED BEYOND
A REASONABLE DOUBT,
NEVERTHELESS, FAIRNESS WOULD
DICTATE THAT THE CLAIMS AT
LEAST SHOULD MEET A THRESHOLD
OF MORE LIKELY THAN NOT.
AS OUR STANDARD.
THE FACTS PRESENTED DO NOT MEAN
THAT PROFESSOR FORD WAS NOT
SEXUALLY ASSAULTED THAT NIGHT,
OR AT SOME OTHER TIME.
BUT THEY DO LEAD ME TO CONCLUDE
THAT THE ALLEGATIONS FAILED TO
MEET THE MORE LIKELY THAN NOT
STANDARD. THEREFORE, I DO NOT
BELIEVE THAT THESE CHARGES CAN
FAIRLY PREVENT JUDGE KAVANAUGH
FROM SERVING ON THE COURT.
>>> LET ME EMPHASIZE THAT MY
APPROACH TO THIS QUESTION
SHOULD NOT BE MISCONSTRUED AS
SUGGESTING THAT UNWANTED SEXUAL
CONTACT OF ANY NATURE IS NOT A
SERIOUS PROBLEM IN THIS COUNTRY.
TO THE CONTRARY, IF ANY GOOD AT
ALL HAS COME FROM THIS UGLY
CONFIRMATION PROCESS, IT HAS
BEEN TO CREATE AN AWARENESS
THAT WE HAVE UNDERESTIMATED THE
PERVASIVENESS OF THIS TERRIBLE
PROBLEM.
I HAVE BEEN ALARMED AND
DISTURBED, HOWEVER, BY SOME WHO
HAVE SUGGESTED THAT UNLESS
JUDGE KAVANAUGH'S NOMINATION IS
REJECTED, THE SENATE IS SOMEHOW
CONDONING SEXUAL ASSAULT.
NOTHING COULD BE FURTHER FROM
THE TRUTH.
EVERY PERSON, MAN OR WOMAN, WHO
MAKES A CHARGE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
DESERVES TO BE HEARD AND
TREATED WITH RESPECT.
THE ME TOO MOVEMENT IS REAL.
IT MATTERS.
IT IS NEEDED, AND IT IS LONG
OVERDUE.
WE KNOW THAT RAPE AND SEXUAL
ASSAULT ARE LESS LIKELY TO BE
REPORTED TO THE POLICE, AN
ESTIMATED 211,000 RAPES AND
SEXUAL ASSAULTS GO UNREPORTED
EVERY YEAR.
WE MUST LISTEN TO SURVIVORS,
AND EVERY DAY WE MUST SEEK TO
STOP THE CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR THAT
HAS HURT SO MANY.
WE OWE THIS TO OURSELVES, OUR
CHILDREN, AND GENERATIONS TO
COME.
>>> SINCE THE HEARING, I HAVE
LISTENED TO MANY SURVIVORS OF
SEXUAL ASSAULT.
MANY WERE TOTAL STRANGERS, WHO
TOLD ME THEIR HEART WRENCHING
STORIES, FOR THE FIRST TIME,
SOME WERE FRIENDS THAT I HAVE
KNOWN, AND I HAD NO IDEA, THAT
THEY HAD BEEN THE VICTIM OF
SEXUAL ASSAULT AND ATTACKS.
I AM GRATEFUL FOR THEIR COURAGE,
AND THEIR WILLINGNESS TO COME
FORWARD, AND I HOPE THAT IN
HEIGHTENING PUBLIC AWARENESS,
THEY HAVE ALSO LIGHTENED THE
BURDEN THAT THEY HAVE BEEN
QUIETLY BEARING FOR SO MANY
YEARS.
TO THEM, I PLEDGE TO DO ALL
THAT I CAN TO ENSURE THAT THEIR
DAUGHTERS, AND GRANDDAUGHTERS,
NEVER SHARE THEIR EXPERIENCES.
>>> OVER THE PAST FEW WEEKS, I
HAVE BEEN EMPHATIC THAT THE
SENATE HAS AN OBLIGATION TO
INVESTIGATE AND EVALUATE THE
SERIOUS ALLEGATIONS OF SEXUAL
ASSAULT, I CALLED FOR AND
SUPPORTED THE ADDITIONAL
HEARING TO HEAR FROM BOTH
PROFESSOR FORD AND JUDGE
KAVANAUGH. I ALSO PUSHED
FORWARD AND SUPPORTED THE FBI'S
SUPPLEMENTAL BACKGROUND
INVESTIGATION.
THIS WAS THE RIGHT THING TO DO.
CHRISTINE BLASEY FORD NEVER
SOUGHT THE SPOTLIGHT, SHE
INDICATED THAT SHE WAS
TERRIFIED TO APPEAR BEFORE THE
SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE, AND
SHE HAS SHUNNED ATTENTION SINCE
THEN.
SHE SEEMED UNAWARE OF CHAIRMAN
GRASSLEY'S OFFER TO ALLOW HER
TO TESTIFY CONFIDENTIALITY --
CONFIDENTIALLY IN CALIFORNIA.
WATCHING HER, MR. PRESIDENT, I
COULD NOT HELP BUT FEEL THAT
SOME PEOPLE WHO WANTED TO
ENGINEER THE DEFEAT OF THIS
NOMINATION CARED LITTLE, IF AT
ALL, ABOUT HER WELL-BEING.
PROFESSOR FORD TESTIFIED THAT A
VERY LIMITED NUMBER OF PEOPLE
HAD ACCESS TO HER LETTER.
YET THAT LETTER FOUND ITS WAY
INTO THE PUBLIC DOMAIN.
SHE TESTIFIED THAT SHE NEVER
GAVE PERMISSION FOR THAT VERY
PRIVATE LETTER, TO BE RELEASED.
AND YET, HERE WE ARE.
WE ARE IN THE MIDDLE OF A FIGHT
THAT SHE NEVER SOUGHT, ARGUING
ABOUT CLAIMS THAT SHE WANTED TO
RAISE CONFIDENTIALLY.
NOW ONE THEORY I HAVE HEARD
ESPOUSED REPEATEDLY IS THAT OUR
COLLEAGUE, SENATOR DIANNE
FEINSTEIN, LEAKED PROFESSOR
FORD'S LETTER AT THE 11th HOUR
TO DERAIL THIS PROCESS.
I WANT TO STATE THIS VERY
CLEARLY, I KNOW SENATOR DIANNE
FEINSTEIN EXTREMELY WELL.
AND I BELIEVE THAT SHE WOULD
NEVER DO THAT.
I KNEW THAT TO BE THE CASE
BEFORE SHE EVEN STATED IT AT
THE HEARING, A PERSON OF
INTEGRITY, AND I STAND BY HER.
I HAVE ALSO HEARD SOME ARGUE
THAT THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
COMMITTEE SOMEHOW TREATED
PROFESSOR FORD UNFAIRLY.
NOTHING COULD BE FURTHER FROM
THE TRUTH.
CHAIRMAN GRASSLEY, ALONG WITH
HIS EXCELLENT STAFF, TREATED
PROFESSOR FORD WITH COMPASSION
AND RESPECT THROUGHOUT THE
ENTIRE PROCESS.
AND THAT IS THE WAY THE SENATOR
FROM IOWA HAS CONDUCTED HIMSELF
THROUGHOUT A LIFETIME DEDICATED
TO PUBLIC SERVICE.
>>> BUT THE FACT REMAINS, MR.
PRESIDENT, SOMEONE LEAKED THIS
LETTER AGAINST PROFESSOR FORD'S
EXPRESSED WISHES.
I SUSPECT, REGRETTABLY, THAT WE
WILL NEVER KNOW FOR CERTAIN WHO
DID IT.
TO THAT LEAKER, WHO I HOPE IS
LISTENING NOW, LET ME SAY THAT
WHAT YOU DID WAS UNCONSCIONABLE.
YOU HAVE TAKEN A SURVIVOR, WHO
WAS NOT ONLY ENTITLED TO YOUR
RESPECT, BUT WHO ALSO TRUSTED
YOU TO PROTECT HER, AND YOU
HAVE SACRIFICED HER WELL-BEING
IN A MISGUIDED ATTEMPT TO WIN
WHATEVER POLITICAL CRUSADE YOU
THINK YOU ARE FIGHTING.
MY ONLY HOPE IS THAT YOUR
CALLOUS ACT HAS TURNED THIS
PROCESS INTO SUCH A
DYSFUNCTIONAL CIRCUS THAT IT
WILL CAUSE THE SENATE, AND
INDEED ALL AMERICANS, TO
RECONSIDER HOW WE EVALUATE
SUPREME COURT NOMINEES.
IF THAT HAPPENS, THEN THE
APPALLING LACK OF COMPASSION
YOU AFFORDED PROFESSOR FORD,
WILL AT LEAST HAVE SOME
UNINTENDED POSITIVE
CONSEQUENCES.
>>> MR. PRESIDENT, THE
POLITICALLY CHARGED ATMOSPHERE
SURROUNDING THIS NOMINATION HAS
REACHED THE FEVER PITCH EVEN
BEFORE THESE ALLEGATIONS WERE
KNOWN, AND IT HAS BEEN
CHALLENGING, EVEN THEN, TWO
SEPARATE FACT FROM FICTION.
WE LIVE IN A TIME OF SUCH GREAT
DISUNITY, AS THE BITTER FIGHT
OVER THIS NOMINATION, BOTH IN
THE SENATE AND AMONG THE PUBLIC
, CLEARLY DEMONSTRATES.
IT IS NOT MERELY A CASE OF
DIFFERING GROUPS HAVING
DIFFERENT OPINIONS, IT IS A
CASE OF PEOPLE BEARING EXTREME
ILL WILL TOWARD THOSE WHO
DISAGREE WITH THEM.
IN OUR INTENSE FOCUS ON OUR
DIFFERENCES, WE HAVE FORGOTTEN
THE COMMON VALUES THAT BIND US
TOGETHER AS AMERICANS.
WHEN SOME OF OUR BEST MINDS,
ARE SEEKING TO DEVELOP EVEN
MORE SOPHISTICATED ALGORITHMS
DESIGNED TO LINK US TO WEBSITES
THAT ONLY REINFORCE AND CATER
TO OUR VIEWS, WE CAN ONLY EXPECT
OUR DIFFERENCES TO INTENSIFY.
>>> THIS WOULD HAVE ALARMED THE
DRAFTERS OF OUR CONSTITUTION,
WHO WERE ACUTELY AWARE THAT
IFFERENT VALUES AND INTERESTS,
COULD PREVENT AMERICANS FROM
BECOMING AN REMAINING -- AND
REMAINING THE PEOPLE, THE SIX
OBJECTIVES IN THE PREAMBLE TO
THE CONSTITUTION, THE ONE THAT
THEY PUT FIRST, WAS THE
FORMATION OF A MORE PERFECT
UNION.
THEIR VISION OF A MORE PERFECT
UNION DOES NOT EXIST TODAY.
AND IF ANYTHING, WE APPEAR TO
BE MOVING FARTHER AWAY FROM
THAT.
IT IS PARTICULARLY WORRISOME
THAT THE SUPREME COURT, THE
INSTITUTION THAT MOST AMERICANS
SEE AS THE PRINCIPAL GUARDIAN
OF OUR SHARED CONSTITUTIONAL
HERITAGE, IS VIEWED AS PART OF
THE PROBLEM THROUGH A POLITICAL
LENS.
MR. PRESIDENT, WE HAVE HEARD A
LOT OF CHARGES AND COUNTER
CHARGES ABOUT JUDGE KAVANAUGH,
BUT AS THOSE WHO HAVE KNOWN HIM
BEST HAVE ATTESTED, HE HAS BEEN
AN EXEMPLARY PUBLIC SERVANT,
JUDGE, TEACHER, COACH, HUSBAND,
AND FATHER.
DESPITE THE TURBULENT, BITTER
FIGHTS SURROUNDING HIS
NOMINATION, MY FERVENT HOPE IS
THAT BRETT KAVANAUGH WILL WORK
TO LESSEN THE DIVISIONS IN THE
SUPREME COURT, SO THAT WE HAVE
FAR FEWER 5-4 DECISIONS, AND SO
THAT PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN OUR
JUDICIARY AND OUR HIGHEST COURT
IS RESTORED.
MR. PRESIDENT, I WILL VOTE TO
CONFIRM JUDGE KAVANAUGH.
THANK YOU, MR. PRESIDENT.
>> [ APPLAUSE ]
>> MR. PRESIDENT.
IS TENNESSEE.
>>> 22 YEARS IN THE U.S. SENATE,
SENATOR SUSAN COLLINS ANNOUNCES
SHE WILL VOTE YES ON BRETT
KAVANAUGH'S NOMINATION, MAKING
IT VERY LIKELY THAT HE WILL
MAKE IT TO THE SUPREME COURT.
I WANT TO BRING IN MOLLY HOOPER,
OUR CBSN POLITICAL CONTRIBUTOR,
AND WILL CONTRIBUTE FOR THE
HILL, SHE SAID SHE LOOKED AT
HIS 12 YEAR RECORD, AND THE
SENATE PROCESS IS NOT A TRIAL,
WHAT YOU MAKE OF WHAT SHE HAD
TO SAY, AND WHAT WAS ALMOST AN
HOUR LAST>> -- HOUR-LONG
SPEECH?
>> IS A FILIBUSTER, SO TO SPEAK
UP SHE LAID OUT HER ARGUMENTS
IN FAVOR OF KAVANAUGH IN THE
LEAD UP TO DISCUSSION, BEFORE
SHE GOT TO THE TAILSPIN OF THE
SEXUAL ASSAULT ALLEGATIONS,
GOING THROUGH THE CASES THAT
DEMOCRATS IN PARTICULAR, AND
OPPONENTS OF JUDGE KAVANAUGH
POINTED TO AS POSSIBLY
APPOINTING SOMEBODY TO THE BENCH
WHO WOULD OVERTURN KEY ISSUES
LIKE ROE VERSUS WADE, SHE WENT
THROUGH A WHOLE LITANY OF CASES
THAT IS DECIDED ON, IN WHICH HE
ESSENTIALLY UPHELD THOSE ITEMS,
TALKED ABOUT THE ISSUE OF
PRESIDENTIAL AUTHORITY, AND
WHAT SOME DEMOCRATS ARE CALLING
THE IMPERIAL PRESIDENCY, WITH
DONALD TRUMP SAYING HE COULD BE
INDICTED, A SITTING PRESIDENT
DOESN'T HAVE TO RESPOND TO
SUBPOENA REQUESTS FOR
INTERVIEWS, SUSAN COLLINS
LISTED CASES IN JUDGE
KAVANAUGH'S BACKGROUND, IN HIS
12 YEARS AS A JUDGE ON THE DC
APPELLATE COURT, WHERE THEY
DIFFERING OPINIONS THAT.
AND SHE GOT TO THE ALLEGATIONS
OF SEXUAL ASSAULT, IT IS ONE OF
THOSE THINGS WHERE SHE -- I WAS
TALKING TO FOR THE FDI VISION,
HIS OWN INVESTIGATION, SHE WAS
SAYING THAT THE DEMOCRATS, THE
OPPONENTS OF KAVANAUGH, HAVE
OVERPLAYED THEIR HAND, ON
TUESDAY, THE MOMENTUM IS AT THE
BACK OF KAVANAUGH'S
CONFIRMATION, BECAUSE PROTESTER
TACTICS, GOING AFTER SENATORS
AND QUESTIONING THEM WITHOUT
ALLOWING THE SENATORS TO
RESPOND, THAT TURNS SENATORS
OFF, IN ADDITION TO WHICH, YOU
LOOK AT WHAT SUSAN COLLINS DID
SAY ABOUT THE LACK OF
CORROBORATION SHE SAID, ON THE
PART OF NAMED INDIVIDUALS, WHO
WOULD HAVE THERE AT THE PARTY,
THAT DOCTOR CHRISTINE BLASEY
FORD MENTIONED WOULD HAVE TAKEN
PLACE, THERE WAS NO
CORROBORATION, AND SUSAN
COLLINS SAID IT'S NOT A COURT,
BUT THERE IS SOMETHING OF THIS
COUNTRY, WE ARE ABOUT FAIRNESS,
HAVE TO BE ABLE TO BACK
SOMETHING UP, AND BASED ON HER
VERY THOROUGH CASE WHY SHE WAS
VOTING THIS WAY.
BUT AGAIN, SHE DID AND HER
REMARKS, THREE QUARTERS OF THE
WAY THROUGH, THE ONE GOOD THING
THAT HAS COME OUT OF THIS,
THESE ALLEGATIONS, THE NUMBER
OF WOMEN WHO FELT EMPOWERED
FORWARD AND SAY THIS HAS
HAPPENED TO ME AS WELL, AND TO
TELL THEIR TALE HAVE NOT BEEN
THAT TO THIS POINT, AND
COLLINS, SHE MADE A COMMITMENT
TO DO WHATEVER SHE CAN TO HELP
MAKE THE FUTURE SAFE FOR YOUNG
WOMEN.
SO THAT THE SEXUAL ASSAULTS
WILL TAKE PLACE.
AND THAT IS SOMETHING THAT UP
HERE ON CAPITOL HILL WILL
HOLDER TO.
>> SHE IS UP FOR REELECTION IN
2020, I AM SEEING PEOPLE IN THE
LEFT CALLING FOR SOMEONE STRONG
TO REPLACE OR.
I WANT TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT THE
MOMENT AT HAND, CAN YOU WALK US
THROUGH THE MATH RIGHT NOW?
IS IT CERTAIN THAT JUDGE
KAVANAUGH WILL MAKE IT THROUGH,
OR ARE WE STILL WAITING ON
OTHER PEOPLE?>> IT IS LOOKING
PRETTY GOOD FOR HIM, SHE WAS
THAT KEY VOTE, 51 REPUBLICANS,
49 DEMOCRATS, OR 47 DEMOCRATS OR
-- AND 2 INDEPENDENTS WHO OFTEN
SIDE WITH THEM, SHE VOTED FOR --
MURKOWSKI VOTED AGAINST
CLOTURE, THEY FIGURE IT IS 50-
50, JEFF FLAKE SAYING HE WILL
VOTE FOR KAVANAUGH, BARRING
ANYTHING IN THE NEXT FEW HOURS,
THAT PUTS THE VOTE AT 50-50, AND
MIKE PENCE IS ON HAND TO BREAK
A TIE.
AT THIS POINT, IT LOOKS LIKE
KAVANAUGH HAS THE VOTES, THE
CAVEAT FROM FLAKE, WE STILL
DON'T KNOW WHAT JOE MANCHIN IS
GOING TO DO, HE COULD VOTE FOR
IT,  AND EVEN THOUGH YOU HAVE
SEVERAL DEMOCRATS LIKE HEIDKAMP,
DONNELLY, AND OTHER DEMOCRATS
IN SO-CALLED RED STATES THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WON BY DOUBLE
DIGITS, THEY VOTED AGAINST
CLOTURE, BUT THEY STILL HAVE A
CHANCE TO VOTE ON CONFIRMATION,
IT IS UNCLEAR HOW THEY WILL
VOTE.
>> WAITING TO HEAR FROM SENATOR
JOE MANCHIN, WE ARE EXPECTING
HIM TO SPEAK POSSIBLY ANYTIME.
WE ARE HEARING REPORTS THAT HE
IS EXPECTED TO VOTE YES, CBS
NEWS HAS NOT CONFIRMED THAT, IF
THAT IS TRUE, WHAT YOU MAKE OF
THAT?>> I THINK THAT'S RIGHT,
ALL SIGNS POINTED TO HIM VOTING
FORWARD, AND THE FACT THAT HE
CROSSED THE LINE, ACCORDING TO
HIS DEMOCRATIC LEADERS,
CROSSING THE ISLAND VOTING FOR
CLOTURE, THAT'S A BIG DEAL.>>
CBS NEWS HAS CONFIRMED THAT
SENATOR JOE MANCHIN WILL VOTE
YES ON  JUDGE KAVANAUGH.
>> OKAY, I ACTUALLY KIND OF
FIGURED THAT IS WHERE HE WAS
GOING, AGAIN, THESE MEMBERS
HAVE TO GET REELECTED, UP FOR
REELECTION IN A STATE THAT
VOTED HEAVILY FOR PRESIDENT
TRUMP, AND JOE MANCHIN, IF YOU
LOOK AT THE ISSUES , THE
ARGUMENTS THAT SUSAN COLLINS
LAID OUT, COMPREHENSIVELY, FOR
THE PAST 45 MINUTES, THOSE
COULD ALSO APPLY TO JOE
MANCHIN'S -- JOE MANCHIN'S
ARGUMENTS.
>> DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THE
DELIBERATION?
HOW CLOSELY, MURKOWSKI, MEANT --
JOE MANCHIN, WERE THEY EXPECTED
TO VOTE SIMILARLY?>> HERE IS
KIND OF WAS INTERESTING,
IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE HEARING,
ALL MEETING TO HAVE A confab --
CONFAB, BEFORE THE SENATE
REPUBLICANS HELD THEIR LARGER
ONE TO FIGURE OUT WHERE
EVERYBODY WAS.
THE NEXT DAY, THAT IS WHEN JEFF
FLAKE MADE THIS BIPARTISAN
MOVED TO VOTE IN FAVOR OF
MOVING THE CONFIRMATION TO THE
SENATE FLOOR WITH A FAVORITE
RECOMMENDATION.
CALLING THE FBI SUPPLEMENTAL,
BASED ON WHAT HE SAID SINCE
THEN, AND WHAT SUSAN COLLINS
WAS SAYING, THEY WANTED THAT
GROUP IN PARTICULAR, THEY
WANTED AN ADDITIONAL FBI
INVESTIGATION, AT LEAST HAVE
THEM TALK TO THE KEY
INDIVIDUALS MENTIONED BY
PROFESSOR FORD, MARCH JUDGE, PJ
SMITH, AND LELAND KAISER, HAVE A
CONVERSATION WITH THE FBI, FIND
OUT WHAT WAS SAID AND MOVE FROM
THERE.
IT IS UNCLEAR WHETHER TALKING
AT THIS POINT, BUT AFTER THE
VOTE, IT IS EASIER TO TELL.
>>> WE HAVE SENATOR JOE
MANCHIN.
>>> WE WANTED TO
>> GREAT CONCERN FOR THE PEOPLE
HERE?
>> SURE.
I'M VERY CONCERNED WITH THE
SEXUAL ABUSE THAT PEOPLE HAD TO
ENDURE, AND VERY MUCH CONCERNED
THAT WE HAD TO DO SOMETHING AS
A COUNTRY.
>> WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO BE
THE -- VOTE FOR JUDGE KAVANAUGH?
>> I JUST, YOU KNOW, I NEVER
THOUGHT OF IT BASED ON 50-50,
50-52, WHATEVER IT WAS.
IF I'D HAVE BEEN IN THAT
POSITION, I WOULD HAVE LIKED TO
SEE THE PROCEDURE.
>> BUT, WHY DID YOU WAIT FOR
COLLINS TO MAKE HER
ANNOUNCEMENT BEFORE YOU MADE
YOUR ANNOUNCEMENT?
>> I THINK THAT WAS BASICALLY
WHAT SHE WAS GOING TO SAY.
>> BUT DID YOU -- DECIDE TO GO
THAT WAY?
>> OH, NO.
I THINK EVERYONE LABORED WITH
IT.
I THINK EVERYBODY LABORED WITH
AND, WE HAD BEEN -- ALL MORNING
LONG.
EVERYTHING.
>> HOW DOES SENATOR MURKOWSKI
VOTING  CHANGE YOUR DECISIO?
>> SENATOR MURKOWSKI IS A
VERY, VERY DEAR FRIEND OF MINE.
VERY DEAR FRIEND OF MINE.
AND, SHE DID EVERYTHING,
CROSSED A VERY -- CROSSED EVERY
"T," DOTTED EVERY "I."
ALL OF US WENT THROUGH THE SAME
PROCESS AND CAME TO DIFFERENT
CONCLUSIONS.
>> DO YOU BELIEVE DR. FORD?
>> I BELIEVE DR. FORD.
SOMETHING HAPPENED.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT THE FACTS
SHOW THAT IT WAS BRETT
KAVANAUGH, BUT I BELIEVE
SOMETHING HAPPENED.
>> DO YOU BELIEVE SOMEBODY ELSE
DID IT?
>> I THINK SOMETHING HAPPENED
TO HER.
>> WHAT YOU SAY TO WOMEN WHO
WATCH THIS PROCESS UNFOLD?
HEARD DR. FORD'S STORY?
EVEN THOUGH THEY HAVE STEPPED
FORWARD?
AND THAT, THE SENATE IS
ESSENTIALLY --
>> I'VE HAD PEOPLE ALL OVER
WEST VIRGINIA COME FORWARD.
JUST BASICALLY, THE HURT THAT
PEOPLE HAVE, THE TRAUMA THEY
HAVE GONE THROUGH.
AND, I DON'T KNOW.
I'M DOING EVERYTHING I CAN TO
MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE HEARD.
>> IS THIS AN ADEQUATE FBI
INVESTIGATION?
>> I CAN ONLY HAVE WHAT'S IN
FRONT OF ME.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE IN FRONT OF
ME.
>> DO YOU BELIEVE THAT -- FOR
THE FBI?
>> I'M SORRY, WHAT WAS THAT?
>> DO YOU THINK THAT THERE
SHOULD HAVE BEEN MORE
WITNESSES?
>> I THINK THERE IS ALWAYS MORE
THAT COULD HAVE BEEN DONE.
I LOOKED AT WHAT WAS IN FRONT
OF ME AND I HAD TO MAKE THE
DECISION.
>> BASED ON THAT, WAS IT AN
INVESTIGATION?
>> FROM WHAT I SAW, THE PEOPLE
I WAS CONCERNED ABOUT AND WHAT
THEY SAID WHAT THEY SAID.
>> DO YOU THINK THERE IS STILL
PLACE IN THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
AFTER THIS?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
I'M JUST A GOOD OLD WEST
VIRGINIAN.
>> BUT YOU ARE LOOKING AT
DEBATES --
>> I DID NOT LOOK AT THIS FROM
A POLITICAL STANDPOINT.
>> ARE YOU CONCERNED WITH
KAVANAUGH'S TEMPERAMENT AT ALL?
I KNOW SOME ARE CONCERNED.
>> THURSDAY BOTHERED ME.
THURSDAY BOTHERED ME A LOT.
BUT, I SAW BASICALLY A
DIFFERENT SIDE.
>>
SENATOR JOE MANCHIN, EXPLAINING
WHY HE CHOSE TO CROSS PARTY
LINES, AND WILL BE VOTING "YES"
ON JUDGE KAVANAUGH.
HE SAID, WHEN ASKED IF YOU
BELIEVE THAT DEMOCRATS SHOULD
VOTE FOR HIM,  HE SAID, I'M
JUST A WEST VIRGINIAN.
MOLLY, I'M SURE YOU COULD HEAR
THAT, IT WAS HARD TO HEAR
MANCHIN BECAUSE YOU COULD HEAR
PROTESTERS  SAYING "SHAME,
SHAME, SHAME," COMPLETELY
OVERPOWERING MOST OF WHAT WE
COULD HEAR.
I WANT TO BRING IN CAPITAL
REPORTER FOR "THE HILL," MOLLY
HOOPER.
YOUR THOUGHTS ON WHAT WE COULD
HEAR FROM SENATOR MANCHIN?
>> A FEW THINGS WERE GOING ON
HERE.
NUMBER ONE,  HEARING THOSE
PROTESTERS IN THE BACKGROUND,
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT SENATORS
HAVE BEEN FACING FOR THE PAST
TWO WEEKS, AND THEY HAVE BEEN
FACING A DAILY.
IN FACT, I'VE COVERED CAPITOL
HILL FOR QUITE A LONG TIME.
AS YOU KNOW.
AND, I HAVE NEVER SEEN IT QUITE
SO -- THE AGGRESSIVE NATURE OF
THE PROTESTERS, REALLY GETTING
IN THE FACE OF SENATORS AND
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE, TO THE
POINT WHERE CAPITOL POLICE ARE
AROUND ON HAND SO THAT A
SENATOR CAN SAY, YES, THIS
PERSON IS IMPEDING THE ABILITY
FOR ME TO DO MY JOB.
THAT'S ONE THING.
NUMBER TWO, TALKING TO OTHER
SENATORS, SOMEBODY ASKED HIM,
DO YOU NOT BELIEVE THE
SURVIVORS?
TO WHICH JOE MANCHIN
ESSENTIALLY SAID, I'VE HEARD A
LOT OF HEARTFELT STORIES BUT
THAT'S NOT NECESSARILY WHAT
THIS IS ABOUT BECAUSE WE DON'T
HAVE THE CORROBORATING -- IN
FACT, HE SAID THAT.
THERE IS AN CORROBORATING
EVIDENCE THAT WHAT DR. FORD IS
ALLEGING HAPPENED TO HER BY
JUDGE KAVANAUGH ACTUALLY DID IN
FACT HAPPEN.
THAT FACTORS INTO THE DECISION
THAT THESE MEMBERS ARE GOING TO
BE MAKING.
AND NUMBER THREE, EARLIER
TODAY, WHEN SENATOR MANCHIN
CROSSED PARTY LINES AND VOTED
FOR THAT PROCEDURAL VOTE  TO
CLOTURE, TO END DEBATE, THAT'S
A BIG DEAL WHEN IT COMES TO
CAPITOL HILL.
USUALLY, THOSE VOTES ARE
PARTYLINE VOTES BECAUSE THEY
ARE PROCEDURAL  AND YOU WANT TO
STICK WITH YOUR PARTY.
ESSENTIALLY, HIS VOTE WAS TO
GIVE CONTROL OF THE FLOOR BACK
TO THE REPUBLICANS AND TO LET
THAT MOVE FORWARD.
THAT WAS A BIG MOVE EARLIER
TODAY AND SORT OF PROJECTED HOW
HE WOULD VOTE FOR THE FINAL
CONFIRMATION.
BUT AGAIN, THIS HAS JUST BEEN A
VERY TOUGH ISSUE, AS SUSAN
COLLINS WAS SAYING, IN THAT,
YOU DO HAVE PEOPLE UP HERE ON
CAPITOL HILL, AS BOB CORKER WAS
SAYING TO ME, PEOPLE WHO HAVE
TAKEN THE DAY OFF OF THEIR JOBS
COME UP BECAUSE THIS ISSUE,
SOMETHING HAPPENED IN THEIR
PAST.
THIS ISSUE HAS DREDGED IT ALL
UP AGAIN AND THEY HAD TO COME
UP AND TALK TO A SENATOR AND
TELL THEM WHY THEY OPPOSE BRETT
KAVANAUGH'S NOMINATION.
BUT AGAIN HE ALSO SAID SOME OF
THESE OF THE PROTESTERS UP HERE
WHO ARE JUST GETTING IN YOUR
FACE AND PREVENTING US FROM
DOING OUR JOB, THAT'S NOT WHAT
THIS IS.
AND SO, I THINK THAT'S
PARTIALLY IN THE BACK OF SOME
OF THESE SENATORS MINDS.
BUT, MORE SO, THEY HAVE TO
REPRESENT THEIR CONSTITUENTS.
>> MOLLY, WE ARE GETTING SOME
REACTION FROM CAPITOL HILL,
FROM FELLOW REPUBLICAN SENATORS
INCLUDING SENATOR CORNYN WHO
SAYS I'M PROUD OF SENATOR
COLLINS FOR RESISTING THE
INTIMIDATION.
FOLKS ON THE RIGHT REALLY
BELIEVED THAT THIS WAS AN
INNOCENT MAN, A MAN WHO HAD
GREAT JUDICIA REVIEW, SOMEONE
WHO HAD JUDICIAL TEMPERAMENT,
WHO HAD WORKED HARD TO GET TO
THIS LEVEL.
AND, NOT EVERYONE BELIEVED DR.
FORD'S TESTIMONY.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
EVEN THOUGH SUSAN COLLINS HAS
SAYS THAT SHE BELIEVES IN THE
ME TOO MOVEMENT AND CASTING
THIS VOTE  DOES NOT MEAN SHE IS
AGAINST THE ME TOO MOVEMENT.
IT'S REALLY HARD, AS YOU'RE
WATCHING REACTION ON SOCIAL
MEDIA RIGHT NOW, SEEING WOMEN
SAY, IF YOU REALLY BELIEVED IN
NOT HOW YOU WOULD CAST YOUR
VOTE.
>> Reporter: WELL AGAIN, YOU
HAVE TO LISTEN TO THOSE
SENATORS.
I GO BACK TO BOB CORKER,
BECAUSE HE IS REALLY A MIDDLE-
OF-THE-ROAD GUY.
HE SAID HE HAS SPOKEN OUT MORE
TIMES AGAINST PRESIDENT TRUMP
THAN SOME DEMOCRATS HAVE.
BUT AGAIN, WHEN IT COMES DOWN
TO THIS ISSUE, AND AGAIN, HE
WAS ONE OF THE FIRST
REPUBLICANS TO CALL FOR,  YOU
KNOW, A DELAY IN KAVANAUGH'S
NOMINATION IN ORDER TO HAVE A
HEARING TO HEAR FROM DR. FORD,
OR A PRIVATE MEETING, WHATEVER
IT WAS.
BUT, TO HAVE DR. FORD TELL HER
STORY TO THE SENATORS AND THE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE WHO WOULD
BE VOTING AND ULTIMATELY TO THE
SENATE AS A BODY WHO WOULD BE
VOTING.
HE SAID, THERE ARE THESE
INTIMIDATION TACTICS GOING ON
HERE.
AND, REALLY DIFFERENTIATED
BETWEEN, YOU KNOW, THE
PROTESTERS WHO ARE UP HERE
EVERY DAY, YOU KNOW, IN YOUR
FACE, AND EXPOSING PEOPLE'S
HOME ADDRESSES AND WHATNOT.
AND, THOSE PEOPLE WHO COME UP
AND ARE TALKING ONE-ON-ONE WITH
SENATORS AND SAYING, PLEASE,
THIS IS WHY I OPPOSE HIM.
AT THE SAME TIME THOUGH, YOU DO
HEAR FROM SENATORS LIKE SUSAN
COLLINS, LIKE BOB CORKER, WHO
SAY THERE ISN'T CORROBORATING
EVIDENCE THAT THIS HAPPENED.
AND IN THIS COUNTRY, YOU ARE
INNOCENT UNTIL PROVEN GUILTY.
THIS IS NOT A CRIMINAL COURT.
BUT, IN DENYING SOMEBODY A JOB
BASED ON ALLEGATIONS FROM 40
YEARS AGO THAT CAN'T BE
CORROBORATED, IT SETS A
DIFFICULT PRECEDENT FOR
INDIVIDUALS WHO WOULD WANT TO
COME FORWARD AND BE NOMINEES IN
THE FUTURE.
WHY PUT YOURSELF THROUGH THAT
WHEN YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT'S
GOING TO COME AT YOU?
TRUE OR NOT.
AND AGAIN, IT'S UNCLEAR IF
THESE ARE TRUE OR NOT.
AT THIS POINT, I THINK THAT'S
WHAT I'M HEARING SENATORS SAY.
YOU WILL HEAR VARYING DEGREES
OF THAT.
BUT FOR FOLKS IN THE MIDDLE
LIKE SUSAN COLLINS, LISA
MURKOWSKI TO A CERTAIN EXTENT,
LIKE JOE MANCHIN, IT'S REALLY
THE PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE
UNTIL PROVEN GUILTY.
AND, THE WAY THAT CERTAIN
DEMOCRATS HANDLED THE HEARING
AND THOSE ALLEGATIONS.
>> MOLLY HOOPER, THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR BREAKING THIS DOWN AND
JOINING US IN THIS VERY BIG
MOMENT.
CBS NEWS POLITICAL CONTRIBUTOR
LSLIE SANCHEZ JOINS US AS WELL
AS LINDA TRANN, ALSO A CBSN
POLITICAL CONSER